[MUSIC]
In this video we're gonna
do something very exciting.
We're gonna invest a chunk of time so that
we can save ourselves a huge amount of
time by setting up our
rules on a rule tile.
Where when we paint things
down it automagically knows
what the tiles should be surrounding it,
and above it, and next to it.
So it all fits together nice and
seamlessly.
So let's jump in and
make ourselves a rule tile.
Future versions of unity I'm sure
will have rule tiles right within
the engine itself, but for now we need to
jump over to the Unity GitHub repository.
I've given you a link for
this in the resources.
And click on the clone or download.
From there click on download zip.
I've also given you the zip
file against the lecture.
If you just want to grab that from
the resources, and not go to the website.
After you grab that, jump back into Unity.
Unzip your 2D extras master.
Drag the folder over into
the assets directory over here.
It will do a little bit of importing.
Fantastics.
All done in there.
I'm gonna do a quick bit of tidy
up before I go any further.
I'm gonna create a new folder and
put in that new folder, if it appears.
There it is.
I'm gonna name this sprite.
I'm gonna put my sprites in there, so
I've got a distinction between sprites and
tiles.
Okay, the simple process of bringing in
this folder, the 2D extras master folder
that is, means that we're ready
to go with the rule tiles.
If you click on the sprites and tiles
folder, right click, create a rule tile.
And we'll call this platforms.
Cuz that's what we're doing.
We're creating extra Platforms in here.
You can see over on the right
here our Platforms.asset file has
over in the inspector we've got a whole
bunch of rules that we can set up in here.
Clicking plus adds a new rule and
minus takes away that rule.
And at once a default sprites.
So basically,
if it can't find a relevant rule then
it will just use the default sprites.
That's why we're gonna start with
the default sprite, click select.
I'm gonna find this nice
green grass top one here and
have that as our default sprite.
Okay, next we're gonna set our first rule,
and
I'll take you through how
the rules work for our rule task.
We click on there, we're gonna find one of
our pretty neutral, in the middle tiles.
This one just here,
this dark middle tile, _11 it is.
Then we'll click on that and
you can see it's placed it in here.
Now this grid, this three by three grid
is where we put in the particular rules.
We can also change the overall rules
on how the tile behaves over here,
I'll get to those in a moment.
But for here, if you click once
in a cell it does a green arrow,
if you click a second time it does a X,
and third time it removes it.
Basically what that is saying is,
when I scroll in here it's saying,
if there is something above then we put
in an x to say, sorry, other way around.
If there's something above we put
an arrow saying there is something above.
There is another tile next to
me in an upward direction and
if we put an x then we say there is
nothing in that particular spot.
So it's saying,
is there a tile, yes or no?
In this instance you can see
we've got the middle here,
that there's something
the whole way around this guy.
So we're gonna say a green
arrow in all those directions.
Later on when we finesse
this a little bit more,
we'll find that we don't
need arrows on the corners.
But for now, I'll leave them in so
that we're doing exactly,
we're replicating this particular
situation as a starting point.
Okay, so now we've got one rule for
our rule tile,
we need to be able to use that rule tile.
And originally my intention was to say,
let's create a new pallet,
because that's what Ben and I went through
in our prototype, to create this section.
We had a manual tiles palette and
we had a rule tiles palette.
So a rules tiles, a rule tiles, sorry,
rule tiles palette, and
we had so two palettes.
But I'm not gonna get you to do
that because what I found was
toggling between the two and
then painting.
So over to manual tiles,
paint over to rule tiles paint
was a little bit of a pain.
If you don't have a huge amount of
assets in your palate I think it's
pretty easy just to have one palate.
But remember you do have that option there
if you'd like to have additional palates
to help you remember
exactly what is where, and
that's a good way to go about doing it.
But for me, I'm gonna grab my asset,
my platforms.asset and
drag that into this palette
up to the top here,
so I know my rule tiles are gonna
be up the top here on their own.
And from there I can click on the raw tile
and paint that straight into the world.
Because I've only got one rule and by
default they're all coming in as default.
But once I make a complete
enclosure around that.
You can see that this hound
has now turned to black, so
it's automatically created
itself as this particular tile.
So that's the starting point for
how we go about creating rule tiles.
There's a lot of logic
to consider in here, and
I'll give you a couple of rules for
how that works.
The first rule is, whatever is on
the top gets considered first.
So we'll make our second rule and
we'll find one of these corners
up in the top left here.
So click on our sprite and
it's this very first one _0.
And you can see because the rules of
this is basically it's saying if it's,
if there's something next to it or not
something next to it then you can do that.
When you first put a tile in it often
hijacks what you've got going on but
that's fine, we'll put our rules in now.
So what are we looking at here?
The behavior is that,
we'll go find it down here.
There's nothing to the left and
the upper left and above so
that's nothing there,
nothing there, and nothing there.
There is something below and
to the right and to the bottom right.
Now, again, it might be that we say you
don't have to have something here, and
you don't have to have something there,
but for now we'll do it exactly as it is.
And we'll finesse as we
go along with our logic.
So I've got that in there.
We can go one step further here, and
this is where we can create a rule,
where instead of it being fixed, and
fixed means that there's only one
direction that this is being placed at.
We can say we rotate it and
that way we can see it's over here,
I'll just turn that off so
you can see the effect.
I just had it in the top left corner
because it knows the rule, click rotate.
Then basically, it's making four rules.
We're only seeing one of it, but
it's saying do this four times.
Rotate this entire rule to 90 degrees,
and 90 degrees, and 90 degrees.
So it's the equivalent of going in, doing
it a second time, grabbing this tile.
Putting, instead of the x's being
over there, the x's are now here.
And down there like that.
So it's rotated the entire
thing by 90 degrees.
But we don't wanna do that cuz then
we'll end up with thousands of tiles.
So here we just say we've got this
one tile that gets rotated to become
the corners.
We've got something slightly more
complicated than that in our tile set.
We have tiles for the top, but
we've also got corner tiles.
I didn't put any in my mockup from before.
We also have corner tiles for
the bottom, so
for here we're only going
to say mirror on the x.
That says that we have these two
scenarios where we have the top role
tile facing to the left and the top role
tile facing to the right for these two.
And then if we create a third
rule we'll do the bottom one.
This will all become
super clear in a moment.
Here we go, okay.
So we've got that, added that in there.
Now we need to create if there's
nothing to the, sorry, nothing left and
nothing below, nothing left,
nothing below.
But there is something above and
something to the right.
And we also want to mirror
that on the x-axis.
So you can see our corners and
now place in there.
These bottom corner tiles as slightly
different because they don't have quite as
much depth from the top to reflect,
they're underneath.
That's why they're a little
bit different there.
So we've created three,
rule tiles here, and the next step for
us is to create all of the rules that
we need for our rule tiles here.
So if we go and paint in here,
we can see the outliers,
things that don't makes sense.
Basically where we've got all
these place holder things.
We need to have what is
gonna happen on the top?
We need to have what's
gonna happen in the middle?
What happens on the corners?
So my challenge to you is to set up your
rule tiles, create a rule tile asset.
First of all, set up your rules and
then paint another couple of platforms and
they can be off the camera if you want.
So what I mean by that is
here's our camera down in here,
you can paint them just over off
in the side, make sure they work.
Do the edge cases.
Pop one up to the front.
Pop the middle.
Do one on its own.
Do three side by side like that.
Do three up and down like that.
You should have all
the assets that you need.
Give that a go, and when you come back
we'll compare notes, it might very well be
that you've come up with some better logic
than I have which would be excellent.
And we will see, and we will compare
notes, when you've done that and
come back.
Okay, welcome back.
Let me show you what I've created here,
just by painting down random shapes and
finding the outliers,
is how I've found what I need to do.
There's still one or two things, you can
see all these green tiles in here, and
the gaps that I'm gonna go through at the
same time with you because it illustrates
a really good rule that I wanna show you.
And let me just quickly
illustrate what I've done here.
So the first couple that
we went through on camera,
I've got my one here that's got no blocks
around it and then our two corners.
The upper and the lower corners on there.
Just the general upper piece,
if it's bigger, long and flat.
So there's nothing above but
stuff down below?
Then reversed for if it's underneath.
And then we also have the left side.
And that is mirrored to
also become the right side.
And then my construction for
the top piece on its own and
the middle and the bottom piece, in terms
of what we do for the rules for those.
And then the left and
right pieces if it's just the left and
right piece on it's own and this one
down the end here should be mirroring.
And I haven't put that in correctly.
There we go.
Didn't need to mirror that one and this is
the one that's mirrored on the x-axis so
that if I drag along like that the left
tile and the right tiles the same.
I didn't do that with the top and
bottom because the top tile is slightly
different to the bottom tiles.
I had to create these individually.
Okay, there's a couple of
things lacking in here.
One thing that's lacking is the corner
pieces and we do have a tile for that.
I'm gonna just put in one tile for this,
rather than putting in all
of the individual ones.
So let me show you what I mean by that.
We've got this corner piece.
You can see a little bit
more clearly down there.
That center piece use that
corner piece and so on.
I'm just gonna select one of those and
rotate it.
I think they're all pretty similar.
I don't need to have those
individually created.
So this is the piece where, let's see if
we can find the exact place for that one.
It's bottom right.
So that would be the equivalent
of something down in here.
So you can see this one looks accurate,
but all these other ones do not.
First of all I'm gonna click on the rotate
to show that we want to rotate this in
all the directions.
And what is going on here, it is,
there is nothing down in that corner but
then there is definitely something
to the right, and something below.
And there may or not be something above or
below to the left.
So just doing that has worked pretty well.
For all of these, good.
And because it's got an X in the corner,
nothing else really has
an X in the corner.
It's okay, but
it's all the way down in the bottom.
But if you find you've set up a rule,
and it's just not working at all?
Then it could be good to drag
it the whole way to the top.
The more specific your tiles,
you have those ones at the top.
So if it's very specific,
put it at the top, and
if it's very general,
have them at the bottom.
That way the specific ones have
a chance to be action first.
And I need to go through and do a final
look see to see what's messing up.
This one here's messed up,
that should be a corner tile.
Why is that?
It's because we're saying these
corner pieces have something or
not something in them that's not valid.
It doesn't matter if there's
something up here or
not up here that should
be a corner nonetheless.
Okay, what else do we have that?
It looks pretty good.
Okay, let's just zoom out and have a look,
just do a quick paint of this.
That looks fine, all meets up.
Okay, it is zooming around,
have a look here.
I'm pretty happy with that.
The scenarios that don't look so good,
maybe we do have the tiles for it,
maybe we don't.
Like in there, it looks a little bit
odd having the rock than not the rock.
Sometimes you're limited by
the assets that you've got.
Maybe just painting a little bit of extra
depth in there makes it all look nice.
We don't force it to do
what it doesn't want to do.
But generally, I'm thinking that looks
pretty good, and pretty good rules set up.
Like I said before,
if you come up with some better logic or
a more detailed set-up than what we've
got here, I'd love for you to share it.
This by no means is the one and
only way to do it.
I'm sure you can find an even more awesome
way to go about setting up your rules.
But for now, we have saved ourselves
a massive amount of time in the future.
To be able to create super quick
levels without rule tiles.
Okay, I'll see you in the next video.